### Potential Project Ideas

## CyberPatriot Vulnerable VM Labs

This specific project I am currently planning on working with another student, Brandon Wilbur, alongside Duane Dunston. The main goal of this project would to make Virtual Machines with specific vulnerabilities to be used for the CyberPatriots, a national run youth program that focuses on teaching students K-12 about cybersecurity. One of the first steps of this project would be determining either to focus on either a Windows VM, a Linux VM or both currently. To my knowledge currently, the Linux VM;s will need to be updated/ receieve new vulnerabilities about every 2 weeks, which will be a large upkeep, meanwhile with the Windows VM, usage of powershell would most likely need to be used in order to create the majority of these vulnerabilities. In addition to making these VM's, documentation will need to be created in the form of guides for the students to use in order for them to not only learn about these vulnerabilities, but also have the capability to find these vulnerabilities as well. This project will not only reinforce many of the ideas and concepts that we have learned throughout our college experience in terms of hardening security, but we are also going to be giving back to the community and potentially impacting a whole new generation of students who would be interested within the cybersecurity field.

## Investigation into various Conference/Screen Sharing applications

This is much more of an actual "potential" project idea than my last one, however I still think this is a major thing that needs to be looked into. The world we live in now is vastly different than the world we lived in a year ago. In order to do tasks at work or at school now, millions of people are using applications such as Zoom, Discord, Google Hangout and much more in order to try an relive our normal lives. While these are a great asset, I believe there are plenty of risks that possibly lie within many of these programs. An example with Zoom lacking in various end-to-end encryption systems, despite being advertised as so, and the fact that it contains In-app surveillance, meaning it can tell whether or not a member of a call has clicked away from the window for longer than a set amount of time. This is extremely relevant, not only due to its usage in society right now, but a lot of these potential issues and why they are harmful for the users has been a consistent idea that has been taught to us throughout our time here at Champlain. Even with classes such as Digital Law, the majority of these practices being done are quite suspicious, and is piquing my curiosity  as the days go by. This project will overall I feel not only help our college community, but potentially having a larger outreach to those out there who use these programs for work or school, and not know of the risks they can be facing.

# [Return Home](index.md)
